Euphorbia miliialso known as crown of thorns,Christ plant,Christ thorn is aspeciesofflowering plantsnative to Madagascar.
The species name commemoratesBaron Milius, once Governor of Réunion, who introduced the species to France in 1821.
It is asucculentclimbingshrubgrowing to 1.8m tall, with densely spiny stems.
The straight, slender spines, up to 3cm long, help it scramble over other plants
Theleavesare found mainly on new growth,and are obovate, up to 3.5cm long and 1.5cm broad
Theflowersare small, subtended by a pair of conspicuous petal-likebracts, variably red, pink or white, up to 12mm broad
The sap is moderately poisonous.
This plant has gained theRoyal Horticultural Society'sAward of Garden Merit
As with other euphorbs, Euphorbia milii produces abundant quantities of poisonous milky sap that causes skin irritation
The legend says that the crown of thorns worn by Christ at the time of his crucifixion was made from the stems of this plant
Interestingly, the stems of this plant are pliable and can be intertwined into a circle
...and there are substantial evidence that the species had been brought to the Middle East before the time of Christ
A thorny, succulent plant that's both salt- and drought-tolerant, crown-of-thorns is a valuable addition to tropical gardens.